Editors are some of the main tools we use in software development.
When developing games with unity, the unity editor itself is where we do most of our work.
And then a separate code editor is where we add the code.
The unity editor is made up of a concept of a layout, which is a group of different tabbed and docked
windows.
And each of these windows performs functions and gives us more information about the game and project
we're creating.
Here's a fairly common layout with the most popular and useful windows.
The hierarchy window shows us the objects in the world.
The scene view gives us a 3D representation of that world.
It can also be toggled to 2D for 2D gameplay.
The project window represents the library of all possible assets in code we can bring into that scene,
and as we select on different items and functionality in these windows, the Inspector window gives
us more detail and serialized fields from our code.
Show up here for easy editing at edit time and runtime.
Let's see this in action.
Within the Houdini editor, I'll create a new scene.
I'll create a game object.
I'll add a custom script to that game object, I'll press Play in Unity and we'll see how that script
translates into runtime.
And then I'll play with the serialized fields inside the inspector to demonstrate how that works.
The prerequisites for this course include some free software.
First, use whatever is your favorite web browser.
This is helpful to do any additional research you need to do along with the course.
For example, you can get Chrome by Google.
Next, we'll need the unity editor itself.
The unity editor also comes with a code editor, or you can use whatever code editor you like from the
Getting Started button at the top nav, we find different choices and prices for the unity software
package.
The options include Unity Personal and Unity Student, both of which are free and recommended for use
in this course.
These include all the features and functionality that we talked about, and everything you'll need to
learn from this course as well.
When we first download and run unity in an open, empty project, we'll have that familiar layout and
series of windows we saw before.
Let's create a new scene.
We can do this in many ways, but simply file New Scene.
We'll choose the basic built in scene and in the hierarchy we can see we have the basic scene set up
with the default camera and lighting.
Let's create a new game object.
We'll choose the cube and then put some custom scripting on the cube.
There's many ways we can do that, but we'll choose Game Object, 3D object and Cube.
Now we can see that cube rendering in the game view.
The game view represents what the end users will see from the game camera.
With that cube selected in the hierarchy, we can see in the inspector window all of the current components
attached.
We'll add a new custom component.
Now in our project window, we see the first asset we've created.
We can double click that script and open it in the default code editor.
When we create a new script and we open it, the default code editor opens for us.
And to get you started, unity includes a small bit of template code.
You're free to remove the parts that you don't want or need and begin coding from scratch.
I'll copy from our scripting slide and paste that into unity.
We have the awake method, the start method, and the update method that's going to run every frame.
Here I'm using the transform component to rotate the object.
We save our script here and return to unity and we'll run the scene.
You can see at runtime that that transform rotate code inside the update method is spinning that cube.
Also, while unity is running here with the cube selected.
I see the serialized field of speed and I can manipulate it.
Now it's spinning much, much faster.
Or much slower.
We're able to make these changes to any serialized fields so we can tweak the gameplay feel or game
design without stopping unity.
This is an incredibly powerful feature of the unity engine.
The unity editor shows us an approximation of our game in development.
It's best to test it in a full build to see the real results.
There's many ways to do that, but I'll use file build and Run.
And now we see our project running in a standalone build.
In my case, that's set for windows.
That's it for a brief overview of unity.
Adding scripting and building the project.
With that quick overview of unity, the Unity editor and scripting, we can begin to see how powerful
unity is.
We're only scratching the surface with what's possible.
We've reviewed the theory editor and coding inside Unity.
We've seen the game object is a fundamental concept that prefabs and scenes are used for high level
organization in your project, and that by creating a class and extending monobehaviour, we get a lot
of functionality out of the box.
Next, we'll take a step back from the specifics of unity and look at some software design concepts.
We'll look at design principles, design patterns, and UML or Unified Modeling Language for diagramming
our concepts and plans.
Thank you.